<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="queries_criteria" xml:lang="en-US" >
	<title>Criteria in queries</title>
	<shortdesc>Explanation of conditions in a query, Like operator and wild cards.</shortdesc>
	<prolog>
		<critdates>
			<created date="2017-10-05"/>
			<revised modified="2017-10-05"/>
		</critdates>
		<metadata>
			<keywords>
				<indexterm>Query<indexterm>criteria</indexterm><indexterm>operators</indexterm><indexterm>wild card</indexterm><indexterm>like</indexterm></indexterm>
			</keywords>
		</metadata>
	</prolog>
	<conbody>
		<p>In a query you can define conditions, so that only those records which meet these conditions
			are displayed. In the design grid the row <varname>Criteria</varname> is available for
			this purpose.</p>
		<p>A criterion is similar to a formula. It is a string that may consist of field references,
			operators, and constants (values that are always the same). Query criteria are also
			called expressions. What may be formulated in a criterion depends on the data type of
			the field (text, numeric, date / time, yes / no).</p>
		<simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0*">
			<sthead>
				<stentry>Category</stentry>
				<stentry>Operators</stentry>
			</sthead>
			<strow>
				<stentry>Arithmetic</stentry>
				<stentry>+, -, *, /, \, ^, Mod</stentry>
			</strow>
			<strow>
				<stentry>Comparison</stentry>
				<stentry>=, >, >=, &lt;, &lt;=, &lt;></stentry>
			</strow>
			<strow>
				<stentry>Logical</stentry>
				<stentry>And, Or, Not, Xor, Eqv</stentry>
			</strow>
			<strow>
				<stentry>Aggregation</stentry>
				<stentry> &amp;, +</stentry>
			</strow>
			<strow>
				<stentry>Special</stentry>
				<stentry>Is Null, Is Not Null, Like, Between, In</stentry>
			</strow>
		</simpletable>
		<p>You can make simple criteria with this, but also very complicated.</p>
		<p>A special role is for the <term>Like</term> operator. This compares a value with a certain
			pattern. That pattern can be the literal string to compare with, such as <userinput>Like
				"North"</userinput>. But the pattern may also contain wild cards, such as
				<userinput>Like "He*"</userinput>. This allows the use of the operator
				<term>Like</term> very powerful.</p>
		<p>Date values must be surrounded by the symbol #. Some examples of date criteria: #12/5/2010#, >#9/1/2010#,
			>#9/1/2010 and &lt;#9/15/2010#</p>
		<p>Wild cards are placeholders for other characters, which you use when you don't know the entire
			search pattern but only a part. The three most common wild cards are:</p>
		<dl>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>*</dt>
				<dd>For any number of characters. Examples: "A*", "*dam"</dd>
			</dlentry>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>?</dt>
				<dd>For any single character. Example: "b?k"</dd>
			</dlentry>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>#</dt>
				<dd>For any single digit. Example "1#5"</dd>
			</dlentry>
		</dl>
	</conbody>
</concept>
