<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ex_tabl005" xml:lang="en-US">
    <title>Exercise: tabl005 - Composite key</title>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2017-10-05"/>
            <revised modified="2017-10-05"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords/>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
        <section>
            <p>In this exercise, you need the table <wintitle>Transport</wintitle> that had to be
                made ​​earlier in the course. When this table is not present in your database, you
                have two possibilities:<ul>
                    <li>You still perform the task by creating this table.</li>
                    <li>You use database <filepath>transport.accdb</filepath> where the table
                        Transport already was made for you.</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>In the <wintitle>Transport</wintitle> table, the <varname>ID
                    TransportCompany</varname> field regularly has the same value. So you can see 13
                times the value 1. Therefore, this field can not serve as a primary key. The value
                of <varname>DeliveryProvince</varname> appears three times because each carrier has
                a rate per province. The field <varname>DeliveryProvince</varname> therefore can not
                serve as a primary key. The combination of the fields <varname>ID
                    TransportCompany</varname> and <varname>DeliveryProvince</varname> is unique and
                can therefore be used as a primary key. Set this as primary key table
                    <wintitle>Transport</wintitle>.</p>
        </section>
        <section otherprops="solution">
            <title>Solution</title>
            <p>Open table <wintitle>Transport</wintitle> in Design View. Select the fields
                    <varname>ID TransportCompany</varname> and <varname>DeliveryProvince</varname>.
                Click <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol>tab Design</uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol>Primary Key (group Tools)</uicontrol>
                </menucascade>.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
