<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ex_data002" xml:lang="en-US">
    <title>Exercise: data002 - Add new order</title>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2017-10-05"/>
            <revised modified="2017-10-05"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords/>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
        <section>
            <p>A customer places a new order according to data below. First consider the best way
                for entering the order. Then create this order. The OrderCode should be the next
                available order code.</p>
            <codeblock>Order on 23 April 2010, 10 o'clock. Customer Rebecca Smit orders by phone 3 boxes CHER and 2 boxes Marz.</codeblock>
            <p>A few hours later the following change to this order is made by phone. First consider
                again the best way to handle the change. Then apply the change.</p>
            <codeblock>Order change 23 April 2010, 16 o'clock. The two boxes Marz should be deleted.</codeblock>
        </section>
        <section otherprops="solution">
            <title>Solution</title>
            <p>First search in table <wintitle>Customers</wintitle> for the CustomerCode of Rebecca
                Smit. This is 11. Then open form <wintitle>Orders</wintitle>. Navigate to the last
                order. This order has OrderCode 967. The OrderCode for the new order will therefore
                be 968. Click button <uicontrol>New Record</uicontrol>. Enter OrderCode 968, the
                OrderDate and CustomerCode 11. In the subform at the bottom enter the data for the
                boxes CHER and MARZ.</p>
            <p>To delete the boxes MARZ you open table OrderDetails, navigate to the last order with
                OrderCode 968. Select the row with MARZ, right mouse click and select
                    <uicontrol>Delete Record</uicontrol>.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
