<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="intro_database_new" xml:lang="en-US">
    <title>New database</title>
    <shortdesc>Instructions on how to create a new database.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2017-10-05"/>
            <revised modified="2017-10-05"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>Database<indexterm>new</indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>Before creating a new database you should mostly do a thorough information analysis,
            followed by a normalization process. Then the structure of the database is determined
            and you know which tables with which fields should be created. Therefore, creating a new
            database is not a subject in this course. When you know what has to be created, the
            creation of the database is not so difficult. Hereafter a few guidelines how you might
            proceed.</p>
        <p>The starting point is the initial screen of Access. In the left part (under Recent) are
            the last opened files and the right part contains some available templates for creating
            new databases.</p>
        <p>First, you can instruct Access to create a new empty database by clicking on the template
                <uicontrol>Blank database</uicontrol>. In the following screen you must specify the
            name and storage location of the new database. Then Access creates this database with a
            new empty table. Creating Tables is discussed later in this course.</p>
        <p>Access provides a number of templates for common types of databases, see the buttons on
            the start-up screen. When the newly created database comes close to one of these
            templates you can use this template. When clicking on a template, a database including
            tables with fields and mostly a number of queries, forms and reports are created. Then
            you can adjust the designs. This is sometimes convenient and faster than manually start
            from scratch.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
