<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="tables_fields_inputmasks" xml:lang="en-US">
    <title>Input masks</title>
    <shortdesc>On how to enforce a desired data input via input masks.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2017-10-05"/>
            <revised modified="2017-10-05"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>Input mask</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>An input mask ensures a solid, mandatory format for data entry in a field. An input mask
            consists of a series of characters and symbols. The data entered must conform to the
            pattern of the mask. For example, with an input mask you can ensure that a telephone
            number consists of exactly 10 digits. Input masks are possible for the data types Text,
            Numeric, Currency and Date/Time. </p>
        <p>The input mask also determines the number of characters that can be entered. Input masks
            are made up one mandatory part and two optional parts, and each part is separated by a
            semicolon. The purpose of each part is as follows:<ul>
                <li>The first part is mandatory. It includes the mask characters along with
                    placeholders and literal data such as, parentheses, periods, and hyphens.</li>
                <li>The second part is optional and refers to the embedded mask characters and how
                    they are stored within the field. If the second part is set to
                        <userinput>0</userinput>, the characters are stored with the data, and if it
                    is set to <userinput>1</userinput>, the characters are only displayed and not
                        stored.<note type="tip">Setting the second part to <userinput>1</userinput>
                        can save database storage space.</note></li>
                <li>The third part of the input mask is also optional and indicates a single
                    character or space that is used as a placeholder. By default, Access uses the
                    underscore (_). If you want to use another character, enter it in the third part
                    of your mask.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>The following table lists the placeholder and literal characters for an input mask and
            explains how it controls data entry.</p>
        <table>
            <title>Characters input mask</title>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colname="c1" colwidth="66pt"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colname="c2" colwidth="334.5pt"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Character</entry>
                        <entry>Explanation</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>0</entry>
                        <entry>User must enter a digit (0 to 9).</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>9</entry>
                        <entry>User can enter a digit (0 to 9).</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>#</entry>
                        <entry>User can enter a digit, space, plus or minus sign. If skipped, Access
                            enters a blank space.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>L</entry>
                        <entry>User must enter a letter.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>?</entry>
                        <entry>User can enter a letter.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>A</entry>
                        <entry>User must enter a letter or a digit.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>a</entry>
                        <entry>User can enter a letter or a digit.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>&amp;</entry>
                        <entry>User must enter either a character or a space.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>C</entry>
                        <entry>User can enter characters or spaces.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>. , : ; - /</entry>
                        <entry>Decimal and thousands placeholders, date and time separators. The
                            character you select depends on your Microsoft Windows regional
                            settings.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>></entry>
                        <entry>Converts all characters that follow to uppercase.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>&lt;</entry>
                        <entry>Converts all characters that follow to lowercase.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>!</entry>
                        <entry>Causes the input mask to fill from left to right instead of from
                            right to left.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>\</entry>
                        <entry>Characters immediately following will be displayed literally.
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>""</entry>
                        <entry>Characters enclosed in double quotation marks will be displayed
                            literally.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>You can either quickly add input masks by using the Input Mask Wizard, or specify masks
            manually by typing custom masks to the Input Mask field property setting.</p>
        <example>
            <title>Example: US telephone number</title>
            <p>Input mask: <codeph>(999) 000-000;0;-</codeph></p>
            <p>Explanation<ul>
                    <li><codeph>(999)</codeph> user can enter three digits as area code</li>
                    <li><codeph>000-000</codeph> user must enter six digits</li>
                    <li><codeph>;0</codeph> specifies that the mask characters will be stored along
                        with the data.</li>
                    <li><codeph>;-</codeph> specifies that a hyphen (<b>-</b>) instead of the
                        underscore (<b>_</b>) is to be used as the placeholder character.</li>
                </ul></p>
        </example>
        <example>
            <title>Example: ZipCode</title>
            <p>Input mask: <codeph>0000\ >LL</codeph></p>
            <p>Explanation<ul>
                    <li><codeph>0000</codeph> user must enter four required digits (0 t / m 9).</li>
                    <li><codeph>\ </codeph> indicates that a blank space is displayed. You don't
                        need to enter this space.</li>
                    <li><codeph>>LL</codeph> user must enter two required letters that will be
                        converted to uppercase.</li>
                </ul></p>
        </example>
    </conbody>
</concept>
