<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="tables_fields_properties" xml:lang="en-US">
    <title>Field Properties</title>
    <shortdesc>Additional properties of a field such as field length.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2017-10-05"/>
            <revised modified="2017-10-05"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>Field<indexterm>properties</indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>You can set additional field properties at a data type. The data type of the field
            determines which properties can be set. The most important and most frequently used
            properties are:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Field Size</dt>
                    <dd>Important at <varname>Text</varname>, <varname>Number</varname> and
                            sometimes<varname>AutoNumber</varname>. For a text field, you can
                        specify the maximum length of the text. In For a number field you can
                        specify what kind of numbers can be entered, like: Byte, Integer, Long
                        Integer, Decimal, Single and Double.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Format</dt>
                    <dd>Can be used with most of the data types. Allows you to control how the
                        content of the field will look when it is displayed in tables, queries,
                        forms and reports. You can use all valid number formats, and often there is
                        also a list of predefined formats available.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Decimal Places</dt>
                    <dd>Important at <varname>Number</varname> en <varname>Currency</varname>. To
                        specify the number of decimal places for displaying the numbers.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Default Value</dt>
                    <dd>Can be used with most of the data types. Automatically enters a value for
                        the field when a new record is created. Very useful when the value is often
                        the same. The value can be changed afterward.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Required</dt>
                    <dd>Can be used with most of the data types. The possible values ​​are
                            <option>No</option> (default) and <option>Yes</option>.</dd>
                </dlentry>
            </dl></p>
        <p>A special role is there for the properties <varname>Input mask</varname>,
                <varname>Validation Rule</varname> and <varname>Validation Text</varname>. These can
            be used in the <term>validation</term> of data, that let you control the conditions for
            the entered data.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
