<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="tables_fields_datatypes" xml:lang="en-US">
    <title>Data types</title>
    <shortdesc>The different data types, the possible values ​​and use. </shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2017-10-05"/>
            <revised modified="2017-10-05"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>Field<indexterm>data type</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>Data type</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>The main characteristic of a field is the data type, because it determines what type of
            data can be in the field. Data types can sometimes be confusing. For example, a field 's
            data type <term>Text</term> can contain both text and numbers (numeric data ), but a
            field of data type <term>Number</term> can contain only numeric data. If you don't know
            which of these two data types to use, think of the following rule of thumb. When you
            have to make calculations with the content of the field, then use data type
                <term>Number</term>. Thus, the field for the price of an article is a numeric field
            and the field for an article number is a text field.</p>
        <p>The data types in Access are:</p>
        <simpletable>
            <sthead>
                <stentry>Data Types</stentry>
                <stentry>Values</stentry>
                <stentry>Explanation</stentry>
            </sthead>
            <strow>
                <stentry>Short Text</stentry>
                <stentry>Alphanumeric</stentry>
                <stentry>Short, alphanumeric values with a maximum of 255 characters</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
                <stentry>Long Text</stentry>
                <stentry>Alphanumeric</stentry>
                <stentry>Long amounts of text, up to 1GB. In eralier versions named memo.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
                <stentry>Number</stentry>
                <stentry>Numeric</stentry>
                <stentry>Range of -2^31 tot 2^31 - 1.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
                <stentry>Large Number</stentry>
                <stentry>Numeric</stentry>
                <stentry>Range of -2^63 tot 2^63 - 1.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
                <stentry>Date/Time</stentry>
                <stentry>Dates and Times</stentry>
                <stentry/>
            </strow>
            <strow>
                <stentry>Currency</stentry>
                <stentry>Monetary values</stentry>
                <stentry>
                    <p>Stored with 4 decimal places of precision.</p>
                </stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
                <stentry>AutoNumber</stentry>
                <stentry>Numbers (unique)</stentry>
                <stentry>Numbers that are automatically generated for each record. Default is the
                    field length Long Integer. AutoNumber is often used as a key field.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
                <stentry>Yes/No</stentry>
                <stentry>Yes or No</stentry>
                <stentry>Boolean values, only two values possible <userinput>Yes</userinput> or
                        <userinput>No</userinput>. In the background Access uses the value -1 for
                    all Yes-values and the value 0 for all No-values. You also use this field for
                    values as TRUE / FALSE, or ON / OFF.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
                <stentry>OLE Object</stentry>
                <stentry>Objects from other Windows applications</stentry>
                <stentry>Photo's, graphs, Excel worksheet, Word document, ...</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
                <stentry>Hyperlink</stentry>
                <stentry>Hyperlink</stentry>
                <stentry>Hyperlinks (also e-mail addresses)</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
                <stentry>Attachment</stentry>
                <stentry>Path and name of a file</stentry>
                <stentry>Files, such as digital photos. Multiple files can be attached per
                    record.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
                <stentry>Calculated</stentry>
                <stentry>different</stentry>
                <stentry>Expression that uses data from one or more fields.</stentry>
            </strow>
        </simpletable>
        <note type="notice">In Access you can set a field's data type to <term>Lookup Wizard</term>.
            Doing this starts the Lookup Wizard, which helps you create a Lookup field. A Lookup
            field displays either a list of values that is retrieved from a table or query, or it
            displays a static set of values that you specified when you created the field.</note>
    </conbody>
</concept>
