<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="data_restriction_validation" xml:lang="en-US">
    <title>Restriction and validation of data</title>
    <shortdesc>Possibilities to enforce proper and desired data entry.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2017-10-05"/>
            <revised modified="2017-10-05"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>data<indexterm>restrictions</indexterm><indexterm>validation</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>Restrictions<indexterm>data</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>Validation<indexterm>data</indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>You have various options in Access to control the way data is entered into the database.
            For example, you can limit the data that can be entered in a field by defining a
            validation rule for that field. If the entered data doesn't satisfy the rule, an error
            message informs you what kind of input is permitted. Another method for controlling data
            input is using an input mask, which is a format for data entry in a field by using
            characters and symbols.</p>
        <p>You can apply these simple methods of validation and restriction by setting properties
            for fields in tables or properties for controls on forms.</p>
        <p>It is recommended to define validation and restriction of data in the design of the table
            by setting field properties. This saves time because every time you use the field in a
            form, the rules for field validation and other properties are also used on the form.</p>
        <p>If the data entered through a form control, is not dependent of a table field, then you
            need to define properties on the form for validating and restriction of data.</p>
        <example>
            <title>Example</title>
            <p>A memo from the marketing department of Snoopy reports that the price of the box
                Butterscotch should be changed in $7.75.</p>
            <ol>
                <li>Open form <varname>Boxes</varname> and navigate to box
                        <varname>Butterscotch</varname>.</li>
                <li>Change BoxPrice from $27.75 to $7.75 and press the TAB key. A validation message
                    appears stating that this price is not right and how you can fix it.<simpletable
                        frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0*">
                        <strow>
                            <stentry>Box price too low, should be minimal 2*BoxCosts. Contact
                                marketing department for further information.</stentry>
                        </strow>
                    </simpletable>Because a validation rule is linked to the field BoxPrice, the
                    price of 7.50 was rejected.</li>
                <li>Click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.</li>
                <li>Change the price back in $27.75 and press the TAB key. After that close the
                    form.</li>
            </ol>
        </example>
    </conbody>
</concept>
